In this Kernel , The following dataset "India Air Quality Data" has been analyzed. The main focus of this project is learning about modeling of data by supervised algorithms i.e (Linear Regression (regression) and Logistic Regression (classification)). The main focus of this particular kernel is AQI(Air Quality Index), and factors that affects AQI i.e (so2, no2, spm, rspm, pm2_5). Since in the following dataset we have the concentration of pollutants and we need each pollutants index for calculating the air quality index , so that is been calculated further in the process and has been utilised in analysis . Also in the following project there is a brief explanation of how combination of the independent variables (Interaction effect) has what impact on dependent variable and how is the accuracy of the model has been changed because of the same and how interdependence/ correlation (Multicollinearity) between various independent variable has adverse effect on the dependent varaiable and given data model. The solution to the problems of multicollinearity is also been discussed in the following kernel i.e Regularization and Stepwise Regression. Both of which gives us an enhanced model , with better predictors and estimators in alignment with dependent variable. Furthermore, following kernel contains some EDA(Explorartory Data Analysis)E which is usually the first step in your data analysis process. We take a broader look at patterns, trends, outliers, unexpected results and so on in the dataset, using visual and quantitative methods to get a sense of the story it tells.

Dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shrutibhargava94/india-air-quality-data
